in this lesson we're going to explore
the purpose of Microsoft purview
so Microsoft purview is built on the
previous Azure purview and Microsoft 365
compliance Solutions so we have our
Microsoft
purview
and it's gold
focused on the idea of we have this
entire data estate for our organization
and we want to be able to understand
what is the data where is the data what
has it gone through
that's what it enables us to do is we
can think about our data can be in many
different places
so for example if I think of my
organization's overall data estate
all that data could be in Microsoft 365
in its various Solutions like SharePoint
teams I could have Azure services and in
Azure maybe that's blob storage maybe
it's data Lake maybe it's databases like
SQL
it could be other clouds and their
Solutions as well for example I could
think about Amazon web services and it's
S3 storage Services I might have data in
power bi I might have data in other SAS
Solutions I may even have data on
premises
and so we have all these different Data
Solutions and Microsoft purview supports
a huge number of those if we go and look
at its documentation
we can see it talks about supported data
sources and file types so here we can
see well in Azure for example blob
Cosmos DB data Explorer data Factory
and we can even see some of the
different types of capabilities its
ability to have classifications live
view lineage either history of the data
I can label the data access policy data
sharing
then we can see through the different
types of database supported file systems
here we can see for example the Amazon
S3
different services and applications so a
huge different range of data sources is
available for us
and so what we want to be able to do
is I need to understand and this is the
key point of what purview is doing
where is my data
foreign
what data is it is it important data
because fundamentally what we want to be
able to do is avoid data exposure
and the way we avoid data exposure is to
know exactly where that sensitive data
is and then take according actions maybe
it's labeling it with a highly
classified label and then from the label
I could do other data leakage prevention
actions especially with things like
Microsoft 365. so that is the core goal
of this
now when we think about Microsoft
purview there are two versions there is
a free version
and then there is an Enterprise
now there are different sets of
capabilities if we were to go and look
at the portal
we can see I have a few options
available to me but this is the free
version so I have the data catalog I
could do data sharing which is in
preview a time of recording but it's
very limited
but if I was to go and look at what's
different between free and Enterprise
really the key Point here is in terms of
the functionality the Enterprise Edition
will expose all of the different
applications whereas free
only gives me the data catalog and even
within the data catalog is limited to
Azure blob storage data Lake storage Gen
2 Azure SQL database and Azure
subscriptions so it reduces what types
of
capabilities and data sources I can use
in addition to various other types of
limitations
and so as I mentioned there are
different capabilities that are enabled
through Microsoft purview
now one of the key capabilities we have
with Microsoft purview is we can scan
the data in place so the first layer of
the solution give myself a lot of space
over here
is the idea of the data
map
and a lot of solutions make you have to
bring and import the data into whatever
the solution is to be able to view it
you don't have to do that here so it can
do a scan in place I don't have to move
everything over
and so those first thing we often want
to do is classify the data and there's
200 plus built-in classifications I can
create custom classifications which are
built on patterns
um n number of numerics and then maybe a
slash and an alpha I could detect a
social security number or a credit card
so first we want to do is classify the
data so we know hey this data has Social
Security numbers this has credit cards
whatever that might be
I then may want to apply a sensitivity
labels which is metadata added to the
data that I could then act on based on
the classification so hey I find a
social security number I'll add a label
of pii or highly sensitive
those labels could then be used to
trigger other actions for example maybe
through ms365 it is Data leakage
prevention it might be data retention it
might be hey make sure you delete the
data after n number of days
it can also do things like data lineage
so the data came in through here went
through these Transformations it's been
saved over here and here
it can give me insights
into my data
because it's now got this complete view
of everything happening in the
environment
the next thing I can get out of this is
a catalog
so I can think of the catalog and this
is going to enable me to think about a
normalized view of all of the data if I
think that data may go through many
different systems our environment maybe
get slightly renamed in some
environments maybe it's duplicated it's
moved between all these different
systems what the catalog will do is
normalize that I'll get one view for a
particular piece of data no matter where
it's stored no matter how it's
duplicated even if there's slight
renames so it's going to make it very
easy for me to get a good understanding
then what we can do
and at time of recording this is in
preview is data sharing
now this is specific to Azure and I
could think about wool in Azure I have a
source so I have some storage of my data
now in this case specifically it's
talking about blob
or ADLs Gen 2 which is blob with a
hierarchical namespace on top of it
and what I can do now is I can send an
invitation so if I'm sitting over here
I could send an invite
to someone in another organization
and if they accept that invite what
happens is they have a Target
storage account
and what it does is I can do in place
access
and what that means is it's not
duplicating the data there's no
replication happening I create a new
storage account in my as the target the
person that's having the invite to view
this data and when I look at it I will
see
the content but the data only resides in
here so the data is not leaving my data
governance boundary for example what I
have here is read only
so I can't change it but absolutely I
could run things like my own analysis
against it against my view of that data
and as the owner of the data I could
revoke access to that at any time so
that's very very powerful
the other thing I can do here is I can
think about policy
so with policy I can create data access
policies to control at a large scale
view of my entire data estate anything
under the governance of Microsoft
purview I can create these policies so
it's access to the data it's large-scale
provisioning of the access
and it's this entirely new data plane
permission that is actually external to
the all-up data store
then the final thing
is estate insights
now I can think of this for the main
governance stakeholders which only going
up a level here maybe your c-level
executives
and it's given give me insight into the
entire data estate my compliance
is going to give me actionable
information that hey here's where I have
maybe sensitive data here's how it's
been used do I want to drive some type
of operation on that and of course when
I have all of this
foreign
analytics against it
using its native capabilities using
external tools that I would want to
Leverage
so this is the key goal of Microsoft
purview it's all about bringing this
governance this insight into my entire
data estate without having to import it
all into some other tool
it gives me the ability to classify I
understand what data is out there and
where it is I can then do labeling which
can then drive actionable tasks upon it
and overall a set of capabilities to
make the best use of my data
this concludes the lesson